Blixt case study (#937)
BitcoinDesign/Guide: guide/case-studies/blixt-wallet.md

   retina = "/assets/images/guide/case-studies/blixt-wallet/blixt-wallet-header@2x.jpg"
   mobile = "/assets/images/guide/case-studies/blixt-wallet/blixt-wallet-header-mobile.jpg"
   mobileRetina = "/assets/images/guide/case-studies/blixt-wallet/blixt-wallet-header-mobile@2x.jpg"
   alt-text = "Smartphones with various Blixt wallet UI screens"
   width = 1600
   height = 600
   layout = "full-width"
%}

# Blixt wallet

## How do we help users new to lightning start using their wallet?

The [Bitcoin Design Community](https://bitcoindesign.slack.com/join/shared_invite/zt-10sxfovaq-isViijl4RThKRs_TsAQnuA#/shared-invite/email) ran a design sprint on an open-source lightning wallet and during this sprint we collaboratively focused on re-designing one aspect of the user flow, the **onboarding journey**. During this collaborative effort, [we got together](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nctibe_a4rM&list=PLpV0KfVOMojYywq1Blp3SGx62cSyoRfHt&index=3) and as a group of designers and researchers we aimed to improve the user experience by using good design principles incorporating as much feedback from users as possible. 

> <p class="h3">Blixt Wallet is a non-custodial open-source Bitcoin Lightning Wallet for Android and iOS and aims to serve users who are new to lightning, but are familiar with bitcoin and want to try out the lightning network for the first time.</p>

Reviewer: We agreed to lowercase everything, so suggestion for consistency.
```suggestion
<p class="h3">Blixt Wallet is a non-custodial open-source bitcoin lightning wallet for Android and iOS and aims to serve users who are new to lightning, but are familiar with bitcoin and want to try out the lightning network for the first time.</p>
```

> The current user base of Blixt tends to be more advanced users and Blixt would like to move towards catering more to users who want to try out the lightning network as well. 

Reviewer: Just a suggestion, if I lost a context with this suggestion, feel free to ignore.
```suggestion
The current user base of Blixt tends to be more advanced and Blixt would like to move towards catering to beginners. 
```

Reviewer 2: Good suggestion

What does Blixt do?

- Onboard someone quickly over lightning so they can have a channel already provisioned to receive funds

> - Automatically open channels anytime the user has on-chain funds (Auto pilot)

Reviewer: Perhaps we should link for those wanting context on how it works?
```suggestion
- Automatically open channels anytime the user has on-chain funds - [Auto pilot](https://bitcoin.design/guide/how-it-works/lightning-services/#on-chain-funding)
```

- Automatic channel creation (using [Dunder LSP](https://github.com/hsjoberg/dunder-lsp)) during initial deposit of funds
- Support for custom LSP

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/case-studies/blixt-wallet/blixt-users.jpg"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/case-studies/blixt-wallet/blixt-users@2x.jpg"
   mobile = "/assets/images/guide/case-studies/blixt-wallet/blixt-users-mobile.jpg"
   mobileRetina = "/assets/images/guide/case-studies/blixt-wallet/blixt-users.jpg"
   alt-text = "Characters representing Blixt's users"
   caption = "Illustrations: [OpenPeeps](https://www.openpeeps.com/) by Pablo Stanley"
   width = 800
   height = 450
%}

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/case-studies/blixt-wallet/blixt-ux-process.jpg"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/case-studies/blixt-wallet/blixt-ux-process@2x.jpg"
   mobile = "/assets/images/guide/case-studies/blixt-wallet/blixt-ux-process-mobile.jpg"
   mobileRetina = "/assets/images/guide/case-studies/blixt-wallet/blixt-ux-process.jpg"
   alt-text = "Diagram of stages in the Blixt UX process"
   width = 800
   height = 929
%}

> Since Blixt is an open source wallet we collected user research simply by going on their Discord channel and collecting comments and questions from users.

Reviewer: Simplifying the sentence 
```suggestion
Since Blixt is an open source wallet, we collected user research simply by going on their Discord channel and collecting user comments and questions.
```

## We discovered that Blixt users were struggling to open lightning channels.

> We created a lot of different user flows to find a solution for the best method to open a channel for a user new to lightning, and eventually settled on this one. We decided on this user flow as it educates users first and then takes them to setting up the channel itself. 

Reviewer: > eventually settled on this one

Is there a link or an image missing here, I wasn't able to understand what "this one" refers to?

Reviewer 2: Correct, there is a userflow image missing here. We will add that one in.

Author: Oh yeah, thanks for pointing that out. @mouxdesign I couldn't find it in the Figma file.

Reviewer 2: Moved the user flow image in the figma file, it would be the userflow one. Dropping an image of it below so you have an idea of what to look for in the figma file. 
![Group 2435 (1)](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/90313394/202697099-d1f4590f-9deb-4c94-a338-12a62c48acb5.jpg)

This userflow would ideally go under that text "We created a lot of different user flows to find a solution for the best method to open a channel for a user new to lightning, and eventually settled on this one. We decided on this user flow as it educates users first and then takes them to setting up the channel itself. ".

Reviewer 2: @sbddesign also gave you editing rights to the figma file.

Author: Done

## One of the biggest challenges we faced was…

> Explaining the concept of channel opening to people who are new to lightning. The concept of opening a channel to make a transaction is totally new to them. Next to this, some users might not be native English speakers and so using words and terms that communicate clearly to a larger group of people was essential.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Explaining the concept of channel opening to people who are new to lightning. The concept of opening a channel to make a transaction is totally new to them. Next, some users might not be native English speakers, so using words and terms that communicate clearly to a larger group of people was essential.
```

- **User scenario:** We then went on to create a realistic user journey which the tester would walk through, with a clear goal that they would achieve in the end.
- **Prototype:** The re-designed screenstates were then used to create a clickable prototype to test out the user journey we had in mind.
- **Test script:** We then created a pre-screening questionnaire as well as a test script which we would use during the testing process.
- **Testing:** The prototype was then tested on 4 people. During the usability test, they clicked through the prototype and we observed how they interacted with it.

After watching the users testing the wallet we made some observations. Those observations were then grouped into different parts of the user flow. All of the data from the tests can be found [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NuYAQX2c_AAnHq6VPMXrg3IxuzL6Pa517SY1Jx6wAs8/edit?usp=sharing). (We have not included the names of the testers to protect their privacy). 

## Here’s what we learned…

> **TODO: Usuability Testing Data Overview graphic**

Reviewer: Don't forget to add this 😄

Author: Done

> - Users new to lightning are missing a crucial step, the why. They often lack understanding on why they need to open a channel before being presented with a screen to open one. Once this is clear it becomes easy for a user to understand that this step is necessary before transacting. 

Reviewer: >  why they need to open a channel 

Would be good to link to a relevant section in the guide wrt channel openings, do we have something like this? I wasn't able to find it, cc @GBKS ?

Reviewer 3: Generally, we try to hide anything related to channels in the daily spending wallet. The instance where it shows up is when you have to pay extra fees because a channel needs to be opened. There are visuals [here](https://bitcoin.design/guide/daily-spending-wallet/sending/#fees) and [here](https://bitcoin.design/guide/daily-spending-wallet/settings/#fees).

Those don't include explanations on what channels are. I think the easiest explainer is that a channel connects you to the network. Without a connection, you can't send or receive - easy to understand. The bigger your connection, the more sats can flow through it, etc.

### Explaining the concept of opening a channel to a user that has never used a lightning wallet

“First things first, to use your lightning wallet, you’ll need to set up a channel. Think of a channel as your electricity connection to the lightning network. By opening a channel you are able to make transactions.

To open a channel first we will need to add some bitcoin to it. Once that is done you will be ready to make your first transaction.”

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/case-studies/blixt-wallet/blixt-usability-test.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/case-studies/blixt-wallet/blixt-usability-test@2x.png"
   mobile = "/assets/images/guide/case-studies/blixt-wallet/blixt-usability-test-mobile.jpngpg"
   mobileRetina = "/assets/images/guide/case-studies/blixt-wallet/blixt-usability-test.png"
   alt-text = "Diagram of Blixt usability test"
   width = 800
   height = 751
%}

## Here’s what we learned about educating users…

> - Providing users with educational screenstates is a good idea. It’s always nice to keep the text as short as possible and keep the explanation easy as well. Through the usability testing we learned that we could further simplify the text in this educational part.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Providing users with educational screenstates is a good idea. It’s always nice to keep the text as short as possible and the explanation easy. Through the usability testing, we learned that we could further simplify the text in this educational part.
```

---
layout: guide
title: Blixt Wallet
description: This was a collaboration between Blixt wallet and the Bitcoin Design Community to help new users establish lightning channels quicker with Blixt wallet.
nav_order: 5
parent: Case studies
permalink: /guide/case-studies/blixt-wallet/
main_classes: -no-top-padding
image: https://bitcoin.design/assets/images/guide/case-studies/blixt-wallet/blixt-wallet-preview.jpg
---

<!--

Editor's notes

Illustration sources: https://www.figma.com/file/eyQDCaMoQvnRVcHzSsgrzs/Blixt-UX-Audit?node-id=17%3A770&t=cCzUFD516C4F6rGD-1

-->

{% include picture.html

>    image = "/assets/images/guide/case-studies/blixt-wallet/blixt-wallet-header.jpg"

Author: That was an accident, will fix

## How do we help users new to lightning start using their wallet?

The [Bitcoin Design Community](https://bitcoindesign.slack.com/join/shared_invite/zt-10sxfovaq-isViijl4RThKRs_TsAQnuA#/shared-invite/email) ran a design sprint on an open-source lightning wallet and during this sprint we collaboratively focused on re-designing one aspect of the user flow, the **onboarding journey**. During this collaborative effort, [we got together](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nctibe_a4rM&list=PLpV0KfVOMojYywq1Blp3SGx62cSyoRfHt&index=3) and as a group of designers and researchers we aimed to improve the user experience by using good design principles incorporating as much feedback from users as possible. 

<p class="h3">Blixt Wallet is a non-custodial open-source bitcoin lightning wallet for Android and iOS and aims to serve users who are new to lightning, but are familiar with bitcoin and want to try out the lightning network for the first time.</p>

The current user base of Blixt tends to be more advanced and Blixt would like to move towards catering to beginners. 

What does Blixt do?

- Onboard someone quickly over lightning so they can have a channel already provisioned to receive funds

> - Automatically open channels anytime the user has on-chain funds - [Auto pilot](https://bitcoin.design/guide/how-it-works/lightning-services/#on-chain-funding)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Automatically open channels anytime the user has on-chain funds - [Auto pilot]({{ '/guide/how-it-works/lightning-services/#on-chain-funding' | relative_url }})
```
Use relative URLs so they are correctly rendered for dev and preview environments.

Author: Accident

   width = 800
   height = 929
%}

Since Blixt is an open source wallet, we collected user research simply by going on their Discord channel and collecting user comments and questions.

## We discovered that Blixt users were struggling to open lightning channels

We created a lot of different user flows to find a solution for the best method to open a channel for a user new to lightning, and eventually settled on this one. We decided on this user flow as it educates users first and then takes them to setting up the channel itself. 

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/case-studies/blixt-wallet/blixt-wallet-user-flow.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/case-studies/blixt-wallet/blixt-wallet-user-flow@2x.png"
   mobile = "/assets/images/guide/case-studies/blixt-wallet/blixt-wallet-user-flow-mobile.png"
   mobileRetina = "/assets/images/guide/case-studies/blixt-wallet/blixt-wallet-user-flow-mobile@2x.png"
   alt-text = "Diagram of the Blixt user flow, from initial onboarding through setting up channels, backing up the wallet, scanning a QR, and sending first payment."
   width = 1600
   height = 644
   layout = "full-width"
%}

> ## One of the biggest challenges we faced was

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## One of the biggest challenges
```
It's weird how the title just ends. I understand it's meant to lead into the paragraph. It might work with a '...' at the end of the title, but without it it's weird.

Author: Fixed, but we tried using a colon. What do you think?

(We can play with an ellipsis some more, but it causes unexpected linebreaks)

> Explaining the concept of channel opening to people who are new to lightning. The concept of opening a channel to make a transaction is totally new to them. Next, some users might not be native English speakers, so using words and terms that communicate clearly to a larger group of people was essential.

Author: See https://github.com/BitcoinDesign/Guide/pull/937/files#r1033655368

> ## After re-designing the interface we tested the new design by doing usability tests. Here’s the process we followed:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Usability tests

After re-designing the interface, we tested the new design by doing usability tests. Here’s the process we followed:
```

These long titles get super huge. Maybe better to use titles just to hint at what's happening, and use body text for the details?

   mobile = "/assets/images/guide/case-studies/blixt-wallet/blixt-wallet-usability-testing-data-overview-mobile.png"
   mobileRetina = "/assets/images/guide/case-studies/blixt-wallet/blixt-wallet-usability-testing-data-overview-mobile@2x.png"
   alt-text = "Chart depicting an overview of the data from the usability tests, showing user confusion about usernames, opening channels, the copywriting, and how to fund the wallet by copying a QR code."
   width = 800
   height = 751
%}

- Users new to lightning are missing a crucial step, the why. They often lack understanding on why they need to open a channel before being presented with a screen to open one. Once this is clear it becomes easy for a user to understand that this step is necessary before transacting.
*For more information on channels, see the [Technology Primer]({{'/guide/getting-started/technology-primer/#what-is-a-payment-channel' | relative_url}}) and [Lightning Liquidity]({{'/guide/how-it-works/liquidity/' | relative_url}}) section.*
- Explaining to users how long it takes to open a channel sets a clear expectation around the process. This would be best done early on during the onboarding journey.

> Opening channels is a process unique to lightning wallets and an essential first step during the onboarding process. For users brand-new to lightning, opening a channel in itself is something that is new and unique to them. It is then helpful to explain to users why a channel should be opened before presenting them with the channel opening screen An example of the text could read:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Opening channels is a process unique to lightning wallets and an essential first step during the onboarding process. For users brand-new to lightning, opening a channel in itself is something that is new and unique to them. It is then helpful to explain to users why this is necessary, before making them go through this process. An example of the text could read:
```
This paragraph contains "open channel" 4 times, which reads repetitive. I rewrote to remove two instances.

### Explaining the concept of opening a channel to a user that has never used a lightning wallet

> “First things first, to use your lightning wallet, you’ll need to set up a channel. Think of a channel as your electricity connection to the lightning network. By opening a channel you are able to make transactions.

Reviewer 3: You could use the [definition list](https://deploy-preview-937--bitcoin-design-site.netlify.app/guide/contribute/formatting/#definition-list) format for these. It shows a piece of copy on the left, and an explainer on the right.

Author: I'm not sure what specifically you are referring to here. Are you referring to the image below with the black UI screen and all the text describing it? If so, Mo and I don't feel that definition list is a good way of presenting that information. If you're concerned about the a11y and SEO, I can come up with some other ways of formatting the information. We were hoping to tackle in a future PR< but can go ahead and do now if this is a blocker for yoyu.

Or where you referring to something else?

To open a channel first we will need to add some bitcoin to it. Once that is done you will be ready to make your first transaction.”

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/case-studies/blixt-wallet/blixt-usability-test.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/case-studies/blixt-wallet/blixt-usability-test@2x.png"

>    mobile = "/assets/images/guide/case-studies/blixt-wallet/blixt-usability-test-mobile.jpngpg"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   mobile = "/assets/images/guide/case-studies/blixt-wallet/blixt-usability-test-mobile.png"
```

   mobileRetina = "/assets/images/guide/case-studies/blixt-wallet/blixt-usability-test-mobile@2x.png"
   alt-text = "Diagram showing comments from users and which section of the UI they were commenting on"
   width = 800
   height = 751
%}

## Here’s what we learned about educating users

> - Providing users with educational screenstates is a good idea. It’s always nice to keep the text as short as possible and the explanation easy. Through the usability testing, we learned that we could further simplify the text in this educational part.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Providing users with educational screen states is a good idea. It’s always nice to keep the text as short as possible, and the explanation easy. Through the usability testing, we learned that we could further simplify the text in this educational part.
```

> - We also learned that when providing educational screenstates we should allow users the option of going back, so that they can read the text from the previous screen.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- We also learned that when providing educational screen states, we should allow users the option of going back, so that they can read the text from the previous screen.
```

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/case-studies/blixt-wallet/blixt-usability-test-2.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/case-studies/blixt-wallet/blixt-usability-test-2@2x.png"
   mobile = "/assets/images/guide/case-studies/blixt-wallet/blixt-usability-test-2-mobile.png"
   mobileRetina = "/assets/images/guide/case-studies/blixt-wallet/blixt-usability-test-2-mobile@2x.png"
   alt-text = "Diagram showing comments from users and which section of the UI they were commenting on"
   width = 800

>    height = 751

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   height = 1053
```
The image is 1053px tall.

%}

## In the end

We had a grand time re-designing this wallet interface. We learned a lot about the mechanics behind running a design sprint. Thanks to [Hampus](https://twitter.com/hampus_s), the developer at Blixt for his input during the redesign. A big thank you to everyone from the Bitcoin Design Community who put in their time, effort and knowledge during this process. The joy of open source is that we get to join forces and do good work together, completely out in the open. If you’d like to get involved in Blixt, feel free to check out their [Github](https://github.com/hsjoberg/blixt-wallet) or join their [Telegram group](https://t.me/BlixtWallet). 

## Resources

> - [Remote design sprint](https://www.figma.com/file/spI8SQHoHA174tmnEH16aS/Blixt-Design-Sprint)

Reviewer 3: This link has edit access - anyone can go in and mess up the file. Maybe change that to view access.

Author: Fixed

- [Interview with core developer](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nctibe_a4rM)

> - [Transcript of Interview](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1E6XhRxF292pCkBKxTWNmDucwVaaxddaQEiNUsUu-_5k/edit?usp=sharing)

Reviewer 3: This document requires edit access... is that intentional?

Author: Fixed

- [Project Overview document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1bgd1uI0PKAn0GFZTtqLY_rzlMdYxEk-7g6KiP0QzkLU/edit#heading=h.qbzoxhysypzv)

> - [Affinity diagram](https://www.figma.com/file/yqC9MYgBxG3QNF1CzxY7uf/Blixt-Affinity-Diagram?node-id=0%3A1)

Reviewer 3: This link has edit access - anyone can go in and mess up the file. Maybe change that to view access.

Author: Fixed
